# Rallying for Change: The Effect of Protests on Political Fundraising in the U.S.


Protests in the United States have become a common method for citizens to express their concerns about various social and political issues. This study examines the causal impact of protests on individuals' willingness to donate money to American political campaigns.

We find a substantial causal relationship between protests and political donations using a staggered difference-in-differences (DiD) design with county and temporal fixed effects. The results indicate that a one-percent increase in protest activities within a county leads to a 0.76 percent increase in the number of donations and a 1.13 percent increase in the total donation amount in the immediate days following the protest. The strongest effects on donation behavior are observed two days after protest events. Furthermore, we suggest that protests relay ideological information to potential donors, with liberal protests increasing donations to Democratic candidates and conservative protests increasing contributions to Republican candidates. Interestingly, protests mobilize both parties, generating donations for candidates across party lines. To bolster our findings, we conduct various analyses with alternative specifications, including different DiD modifications and a temporal regression discontinuity design, where we examine donation behavior immediately before and after large-scale protest events. Following the 2018 March For Our Lives gun control protests, we show that there was a significant increase in the total daily amount of individual-level donations, which confirms the mobilizing effects of protest activities from our previous analyses.

Overall, we demonstrate that protests significantly impact donation behavior, determining when individuals donate, how much they donate, and which candidates receive the donations. Protests serve as a powerful tool for candidates and interest groups aiming to influence political outcomes.
